skyfield/documentation/earth-satellites.rst, before:


==================
 Earth Satellites
==================

.. currentmodule:: skyfield

Skyfield is able to predict the positions of Earth satellites
from the Two-Line Element (TLE) files published
by organizations like `CelesTrak`_.
But there several limitations to be aware of
when using Skyfield to generate positions
for artificial satellites in Earth orbit:

.. _Celestrak: https://celestrak.com/

1. Do not expect perfect agreement between
   any two pieces of software that are trying to predict
   satellite positions from TLE data files.
   As Vallado, Crawford, and Hujsak document
   in their crucial paper `Revisiting Spacetrack Report #3`_,
   there are many slightly different versions
   of the basic satellite prediction algorithm circulating in the wild.
   (Happily, Skyfield does use
   the corrected and updated version of the algorithm
   that they created as part of writing that report!)

2. The accuracy of the satellite positions is not perfect.
   To quote directly from `Revisiting Spacetrack Report #3`_
   Appendix B:

      “The maximum accuracy for a TLE is
      limited by the number of decimal places in each field.
      In general, TLE data is accurate to about a kilometer or so
      at epoch and it quickly degrades.”

3. Satellite elements go rapidly out of date.
   You will want to pay attention to the “epoch” —
   the date on which an element set is most accurate —
   of every TLE element set you use.
   Elements are only useful for a week or two
   on either side of the epoch date,
   and for dates outside of that range
   you will want to download a fresh set of elements.

4. Given the low accuracy of TLE elements,
   there is no point in calling the usual Skyfield
   :meth:`~skyfield.positionlib.Barycentric.observe()` method
   that repeatedly re-computes an object’s position
   to account for the light-travel time to the observer.
   As we will see below,
   the difference is irrelevant for Earth satellites
   and not worth the added expense of re-computing the position
   several times in a row.

.. _Revisiting Spacetrack Report #3:
    https://celestrak.com/publications/AIAA/2006-6753/

Finding and loading satellite elements
--------------------------------------

You can find satellite element sets at the
`NORAD Two-Line Element Sets <http://celestrak.com/NORAD/elements/>`_
page of the Celestrak web site.

Beware that the two-line element (TLE) format is very rigid.
The meaning of each character
is based on its exact offset from the beginning of the line.
You must download and use the element set’s text
without making any change to its whitespace.

Skyfield loader objects offer a :meth:`~skyfield.iokit.Loader.tle()`
method that can download and cache a file full of satellite elements
from a site like Celestrak.
A popular observing target for satellite observers
is the International Space Station,
which is listed in their ``stations.txt`` file:

.. testsetup::

    open('stations.txt', 'wb').write(b"""\
    ISS (ZARYA)             \n\
    1 25544U 98067A   14020.93268519  .00009878  00000-0  18200-3 0  5082
    2 25544  51.6498 109.4756 0003572  55.9686 274.8005 15.49815350868473
    """)

.. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import Topos, load

    stations_url = 'http://celestrak.com/NORAD/elements/stations.txt'
    satellites = load.tle(stations_url)
    satellite = satellites['ISS (ZARYA)']
    print(satellite)

.. testoutput::

    EarthSatellite 'ISS (ZARYA)' number=25544 epoch=2014-01-20T22:23:04Z

The value shown for the “epoch” is the all-important date and time
on which this set of elements is most accurate,
and before or after which they go rapidly out of date.
You can access this value as an attribute of the object
in case your program wants to check how old the elements are:

.. testcode::

    print(satellite.epoch.utc_jpl())

.. testoutput::

    A.D. 2014-Jan-20 22:23:04.0004 UT

If the epoch is too far in the past,
you can provide :meth:`~skyfield.iokit.Loader.tle()`
with the ``reload`` option to force it to download new elements
even if the file is already on disk.

.. testcode::

   ts = load.timescale()
   t = ts.utc(2014, 1, 23, 11, 18, 7)

   days = t - satellite.epoch
   print('{:.3f} days away from epoch'.format(days))

   if abs(days) > 14:
       satellites = load.tle(stations_url, reload=True)
       satellite = satellites['ISS (ZARYA)']

.. testoutput::

    2.538 days away from epoch

Generating a satellite position
-------------------------------

The simplest form in which you can generate a satellite position
is to call its :meth:`~skyfield.sgp4lib.EarthSatellite.at()` method,
which will return an *x, y, z* position relative to the Earth’s center
in the Geocentric Celestial Reference System.
(GCRS coordinates are based on even more precise axes
than those of the old J2000 system.)

.. testcode::

   geocentric = satellite.at(t)
   print(geocentric.position.km)

.. testoutput::

   [-3918.87650111 -1887.64840113  5209.08801278]

.. would love to be able to do this someday - see the SPICE source file
   nearpt.f

   But instead of printing the position as a GCRS vector like this,
   you will probably want to answer the question
   “where is the satellite at time *t*?”
   with geographic coordinates instead:

   lat, lon, altitude = geocentric.geographic_latlon()
   print(lat)
   print(lon)
   print(altitude)

   But most observers are less interested
   in the satellite’s position relative to the Earth’s center
   and instead want to know ...

But you are probably more interested
in whether the satellite is above or below the horizon
from your own position as an observer.
If you build a Topos object to represent your location,
you can use vector subtraction
to ask “where will the satellite be *relative to* my location?”

.. testcode::

    bluffton = Topos('40.8939 N', '83.8917 W')
    difference = satellite - bluffton
    print(difference)

.. testoutput::

    Sum of 2 vectors:
     - Topos 40deg 53' 38.0" N -83deg 53' 30.1" E
     + EarthSatellite 'ISS (ZARYA)' number=25544 epoch=2014-01-20T22:23:04Z

Every time you call this vector sum’s `at()` method,
it will first compute the satellite’s position,
then your own position,
and finish by subtracting them.
The result will be the position of the satellite relative
to you as an observer.
If you are interested you can access this relative position
as *x, y, z* coordinates,
just as you did for the position measured from the Earth’s center:

.. testcode::

   topocentric = difference.at(t)
   print(topocentric.position.km)

.. testoutput::

    [ 331.61885573  392.1846109  1049.76010007]

But the most popular approach is to ask the topocentric position
for its altitude and azimuth coordinates,
which tell you whether the satellite is above or below the horizon:

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = topocentric.altaz()

    if alt.degrees > 0:
        print('The ISS is above the horizon')

    print(alt)
    print(az)
    print(distance.km)

.. testoutput::

    The ISS is above the horizon
    16deg 16' 32.6"
    350deg 15' 20.4"
    1168.6642384388767

If you are interested
in where among the stars the satellite will be positioned,
then — as with any other Skyfield position object —
you can also ask for a right ascension and declination,
either relative to the fixed axes of the ICRF
or else in dynamical coordinates of the date you specify.

.. testcode::

    ra, dec, distance = topocentric.radec()  # ICRF ("J2000")

    print(ra)
    print(dec)

.. testoutput::

    03h 19m 07.97s
    +63deg 55' 47.3"

.. testcode::

    ra, dec, distance = topocentric.radec(epoch='date')

    print(ra)
    print(dec)

.. testoutput::

    03h 20m 22.42s
    +63deg 58' 45.3"

See :doc:`positions` to learn more about these possibilities.

Avoid calling the observe method
--------------------------------

When computing positions for the Sun, Moon, planets, and stars,
Skyfield encourages a far more fussy approach
than directly subtracting two vectors.
In those cases, the user is encouraged
to compute their current location with `at()`
and then call the `observe()` method on the result
so that Skyfield can correctly adjust the object’s position
for the time it takes light to travel.

1. This turns out to be expensive for Earth satellites,
   however, because the routines
   with which Skyfield computes satellite positions
   are not currently very fast.

2. And it turns out to be useless,
   because satellites are too close and move far too slowly
   (at least compared to something like a planet)
   for the light travel time to make any difference.

How far off will your observations be
if you simply subtract your position vector
from the satellite’s vector, as encouraged above?
Let’s try the alternative and measure the difference.

To use the `observe()` method,
you need a position measured all the way
from the Solar System Barycenter (SSB).
To anchor both our observer location
and that of the satellite to the SSB,
we can use vector addition with an ephemeris
that predicts the Solar System position of the Earth:

.. testcode::

    # OVERLY EXPENSIVE APPROACH - Compute both the satellite
    # and observer positions relative to the Solar System
    # barycenter ("ssb"), then call observe() to compensate
    # for light-travel time.

    de421 = load('de421.bsp')
    earth = de421['earth']
    ssb_bluffton = earth + bluffton
    ssb_satellite = earth + satellite
    topocentric2 = ssb_bluffton.at(t).observe(ssb_satellite).apparent()

What difference has all of that work made?
We can subtract the resulting positions
to find out the distance between them:

.. testcode::

    # After all that work, how big is the difference, really?

    difference_km = (topocentric2 - topocentric).distance().km
    print('Difference between the two positions:')
    print('{0:.3f} km'.format(difference_km))

    difference_angle = topocentric2.separation_from(topocentric)
    print('Angle between the two positions in the sky:')
    print('{}'.format(difference_angle))

.. testoutput::

    Difference between the two positions:
    0.087 km
    Angle between the two positions in the sky:
    00deg 00' 04.6"

And there you have it!

While satellite positions are only accurate to about a kilometer anyway,
accounting for light travel time only affected the position
in this case by less than an additional tenth of a kilometer.
This difference is not meaningful
when compared to the uncertainty
that is inherent in satellite positions to begin with,
so you should neglect it and simply subtract
GCRS-centered vectors instead as detailed above.

Detecting Propagation Errors
============================

After building a satellite object,
you can examine the *epoch* date and time
when the TLE element set’s predictions are most accurate.
The ``epoch`` attribute is a :class:`Time`,
so it supports all of the standard Skyfield date methods:

.. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import EarthSatellite

    text = """
    GOCE                    
    1 34602U 09013A   13314.96046236  .14220718  20669-5  50412-4 0   930
    2 34602 096.5717 344.5256 0009826 296.2811 064.0942 16.58673376272979
    """
    lines = text.strip().splitlines()

    sat = EarthSatellite(lines[1], lines[2], lines[0])
    print(sat.epoch.utc_jpl())

.. testoutput::

    A.D. 2013-Nov-10 23:03:03.9479 UT

Skyfield is willing to generate positions
for dates quite far from a satellite’s epoch,
even if they are not likely to be meaningful.
But it cannot generate a position
beyond the point where the elements stop making physical sense.
At that point, the satellite will return a position and velocity
``(nan, nan, nan)`` where all of the quantities
are the special floating-point value ``nan`` which means *not-a-number*.

When a propagation error occurs and you get ``nan`` values,
you can examine the ``sgp4_error`` attribute of the returned position
to learn the error that the SGP4 propagator encountered.

We can take as an example the satellite elements above.
They are the last elements ever issued for GOCE,
about one day before the satellite re-entered the atmosphere
after an extended and successful mission.
Because of the steep decay of its orbit,
the elements are valid over an unusually short period —
from just before noon on Saturday to just past noon on Tuesday:

.. image:: _static/goce-decay.png

By asking for GOCE’s position just before or after this window,
we can learn about the propagation errors
that are limiting this TLE set’s predictions:

.. testcode::

    geocentric = sat.at(ts.utc(2013, 11, 9))
    print('Before:')
    print(geocentric.position.km)
    print(geocentric.message)

    geocentric = sat.at(ts.utc(2013, 11, 13))
    print('\nAfter:')
    print(geocentric.position.km)
    print(geocentric.message)

.. testoutput::

    Before:
    [nan nan nan]
    mean eccentricity -0.001416 not within range 0.0 <= e < 1.0

    After:
    [nan nan nan]
    mrt 0.997178 is less than 1.0 indicating the satellite has decayed

If you use a ``Time`` array to ask about an entire range of dates,
then ``sgp4_error`` will be a sequence filled in with ``None``
whenever the SGP4 propagator was successful
and otherwise recording the propagator error:

.. testcode::

    from pprint import pprint

    geocentric = sat.at(ts.utc(2013, 11, [9, 10, 11, 12, 13]))
    pprint(geocentric.message)

.. testoutput::

    ['mean eccentricity -0.001416 not within range 0.0 <= e < 1.0',
     None,
     None,
     None,
     'mrt 0.997178 is less than 1.0 indicating the satellite has decayed']

Commit message:

Show how to use subpoint() with Earth satellites
Fixes #216.

skyfield/documentation/earth-satellites.rst, after:


==================
 Earth Satellites
==================

.. currentmodule:: skyfield

Skyfield is able to predict the positions of Earth satellites
from the Two-Line Element (TLE) files published
by organizations like `CelesTrak`_.
But there several limitations to be aware of
when using Skyfield to generate positions
for artificial satellites in Earth orbit:

.. _Celestrak: https://celestrak.com/

1. Do not expect perfect agreement between
   any two pieces of software that are trying to predict
   satellite positions from TLE data files.
   As Vallado, Crawford, and Hujsak document
   in their crucial paper `Revisiting Spacetrack Report #3`_,
   there are many slightly different versions
   of the basic satellite prediction algorithm circulating in the wild.
   (Happily, Skyfield does use
   the corrected and updated version of the algorithm
   that they created as part of writing that report!)

2. The accuracy of the satellite positions is not perfect.
   To quote directly from `Revisiting Spacetrack Report #3`_
   Appendix B:

      “The maximum accuracy for a TLE is
      limited by the number of decimal places in each field.
      In general, TLE data is accurate to about a kilometer or so
      at epoch and it quickly degrades.”

3. Satellite elements go rapidly out of date.
   You will want to pay attention to the “epoch” —
   the date on which an element set is most accurate —
   of every TLE element set you use.
   Elements are only useful for a week or two
   on either side of the epoch date,
   and for dates outside of that range
   you will want to download a fresh set of elements.

4. Given the low accuracy of TLE elements,
   there is no point in calling the usual Skyfield
   :meth:`~skyfield.positionlib.Barycentric.observe()` method
   that repeatedly re-computes an object’s position
   to account for the light-travel time to the observer.
   As we will see below,
   the difference is irrelevant for Earth satellites
   and not worth the added expense of re-computing the position
   several times in a row.

.. _Revisiting Spacetrack Report #3:
    https://celestrak.com/publications/AIAA/2006-6753/

Finding and loading satellite elements
--------------------------------------

You can find satellite element sets at the
`NORAD Two-Line Element Sets <http://celestrak.com/NORAD/elements/>`_
page of the Celestrak web site.

Beware that the two-line element (TLE) format is very rigid.
The meaning of each character
is based on its exact offset from the beginning of the line.
You must download and use the element set’s text
without making any change to its whitespace.

Skyfield loader objects offer a :meth:`~skyfield.iokit.Loader.tle()`
method that can download and cache a file full of satellite elements
from a site like Celestrak.
A popular observing target for satellite observers
is the International Space Station,
which is listed in their ``stations.txt`` file:

.. testsetup::

    open('stations.txt', 'wb').write(b"""\
    ISS (ZARYA)             \n\
    1 25544U 98067A   14020.93268519  .00009878  00000-0  18200-3 0  5082
    2 25544  51.6498 109.4756 0003572  55.9686 274.8005 15.49815350868473
    """)

.. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import Topos, load

    stations_url = 'http://celestrak.com/NORAD/elements/stations.txt'
    satellites = load.tle(stations_url)
    satellite = satellites['ISS (ZARYA)']
    print(satellite)

.. testoutput::

    EarthSatellite 'ISS (ZARYA)' number=25544 epoch=2014-01-20T22:23:04Z

The value shown for the “epoch” is the all-important date and time
on which this set of elements is most accurate,
and before or after which they go rapidly out of date.
You can access this value as an attribute of the object
in case your program wants to check how old the elements are:

.. testcode::

    print(satellite.epoch.utc_jpl())

.. testoutput::

    A.D. 2014-Jan-20 22:23:04.0004 UT

If the epoch is too far in the past,
you can provide :meth:`~skyfield.iokit.Loader.tle()`
with the ``reload`` option to force it to download new elements
even if the file is already on disk.

.. testcode::

   ts = load.timescale()
   t = ts.utc(2014, 1, 23, 11, 18, 7)

   days = t - satellite.epoch
   print('{:.3f} days away from epoch'.format(days))

   if abs(days) > 14:
       satellites = load.tle(stations_url, reload=True)
       satellite = satellites['ISS (ZARYA)']

.. testoutput::

    2.538 days away from epoch

Generating a satellite position
-------------------------------

The simplest form in which you can generate a satellite position
is to call its :meth:`~skyfield.sgp4lib.EarthSatellite.at()` method,
which will return an *x, y, z* position relative to the Earth’s center
in the Geocentric Celestial Reference System.
(GCRS coordinates are based on even more precise axes
than those of the old J2000 system.)

.. testcode::

   geocentric = satellite.at(t)
   print(geocentric.position.km)

.. testoutput::

   [-3918.87650111 -1887.64840113  5209.08801278]

.. would love to be able to do this someday - see the SPICE source file
   nearpt.f

   But instead of printing the position as a GCRS vector like this,
   you will probably want to answer the question
   “where is the satellite at time *t*?”
   with geographic coordinates instead:

   lat, lon, altitude = geocentric.geographic_latlon()
   print(lat)
   print(lon)
   print(altitude)

   But most observers are less interested
   in the satellite’s position relative to the Earth’s center
   and instead want to know ...

Another approach is to ask which point on the Earth’s globe
is directly beneath the satellite.
You can access this through the
:meth:`~skyfield.positionlib.Geocentric.subpoint()`
method of the geocentric position computed above.

.. testcode::

    subpoint = geocentric.subpoint()
    print('Latitude:', subpoint.latitude)
    print('Longitude:', subpoint.longitude)
    print('Elevation (m):', subpoint.elevation.m)

.. testoutput::

    Latitude: -38deg 12' 47.5"
    Longitude: -02deg 20' 24.4"
    Elevation (m): 379774.000071

Finally, you might be most interested
in whether the satellite is above or below the horizon
from your own position as an observer.
If you build a Topos object to represent your location,
you can use vector subtraction
to ask “where will the satellite be *relative to* my location?”

.. testcode::

    bluffton = Topos('40.8939 N', '83.8917 W')
    difference = satellite - bluffton
    print(difference)

.. testoutput::

    Sum of 2 vectors:
     - Topos 40deg 53' 38.0" N -83deg 53' 30.1" E
     + EarthSatellite 'ISS (ZARYA)' number=25544 epoch=2014-01-20T22:23:04Z

Every time you call this vector sum’s `at()` method,
it will first compute the satellite’s position,
then your own position,
and finish by subtracting them.
The result will be the position of the satellite relative
to you as an observer.
If you are interested you can access this relative position
as *x, y, z* coordinates,
just as you did for the position measured from the Earth’s center:

.. testcode::

   topocentric = difference.at(t)
   print(topocentric.position.km)

.. testoutput::

    [ 331.61885573  392.1846109  1049.76010007]

But the most popular approach is to ask the topocentric position
for its altitude and azimuth coordinates,
which tell you whether the satellite is above or below the horizon:

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = topocentric.altaz()

    if alt.degrees > 0:
        print('The ISS is above the horizon')

    print(alt)
    print(az)
    print(distance.km)

.. testoutput::

    The ISS is above the horizon
    16deg 16' 32.6"
    350deg 15' 20.4"
    1168.6642384388767

If you are interested
in where among the stars the satellite will be positioned,
then — as with any other Skyfield position object —
you can also ask for a right ascension and declination,
either relative to the fixed axes of the ICRF
or else in dynamical coordinates of the date you specify.

.. testcode::

    ra, dec, distance = topocentric.radec()  # ICRF ("J2000")

    print(ra)
    print(dec)

.. testoutput::

    03h 19m 07.97s
    +63deg 55' 47.3"

.. testcode::

    ra, dec, distance = topocentric.radec(epoch='date')

    print(ra)
    print(dec)

.. testoutput::

    03h 20m 22.42s
    +63deg 58' 45.3"

See :doc:`positions` to learn more about these possibilities.

Avoid calling the observe method
--------------------------------

When computing positions for the Sun, Moon, planets, and stars,
Skyfield encourages a far more fussy approach
than directly subtracting two vectors.
In those cases, the user is encouraged
to compute their current location with `at()`
and then call the `observe()` method on the result
so that Skyfield can correctly adjust the object’s position
for the time it takes light to travel.

1. This turns out to be expensive for Earth satellites,
   however, because the routines
   with which Skyfield computes satellite positions
   are not currently very fast.

2. And it turns out to be useless,
   because satellites are too close and move far too slowly
   (at least compared to something like a planet)
   for the light travel time to make any difference.

How far off will your observations be
if you simply subtract your position vector
from the satellite’s vector, as encouraged above?
Let’s try the alternative and measure the difference.

To use the `observe()` method,
you need a position measured all the way
from the Solar System Barycenter (SSB).
To anchor both our observer location
and that of the satellite to the SSB,
we can use vector addition with an ephemeris
that predicts the Solar System position of the Earth:

.. testcode::

    # OVERLY EXPENSIVE APPROACH - Compute both the satellite
    # and observer positions relative to the Solar System
    # barycenter ("ssb"), then call observe() to compensate
    # for light-travel time.

    de421 = load('de421.bsp')
    earth = de421['earth']
    ssb_bluffton = earth + bluffton
    ssb_satellite = earth + satellite
    topocentric2 = ssb_bluffton.at(t).observe(ssb_satellite).apparent()

What difference has all of that work made?
We can subtract the resulting positions
to find out the distance between them:

.. testcode::

    # After all that work, how big is the difference, really?

    difference_km = (topocentric2 - topocentric).distance().km
    print('Difference between the two positions:')
    print('{0:.3f} km'.format(difference_km))

    difference_angle = topocentric2.separation_from(topocentric)
    print('Angle between the two positions in the sky:')
    print('{}'.format(difference_angle))

.. testoutput::

    Difference between the two positions:
    0.087 km
    Angle between the two positions in the sky:
    00deg 00' 04.6"

And there you have it!

While satellite positions are only accurate to about a kilometer anyway,
accounting for light travel time only affected the position
in this case by less than an additional tenth of a kilometer.
This difference is not meaningful
when compared to the uncertainty
that is inherent in satellite positions to begin with,
so you should neglect it and simply subtract
GCRS-centered vectors instead as detailed above.

Detecting Propagation Errors
============================

After building a satellite object,
you can examine the *epoch* date and time
when the TLE element set’s predictions are most accurate.
The ``epoch`` attribute is a :class:`Time`,
so it supports all of the standard Skyfield date methods:

.. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import EarthSatellite

    text = """
    GOCE                    
    1 34602U 09013A   13314.96046236  .14220718  20669-5  50412-4 0   930
    2 34602 096.5717 344.5256 0009826 296.2811 064.0942 16.58673376272979
    """
    lines = text.strip().splitlines()

    sat = EarthSatellite(lines[1], lines[2], lines[0])
    print(sat.epoch.utc_jpl())

.. testoutput::

    A.D. 2013-Nov-10 23:03:03.9479 UT

Skyfield is willing to generate positions
for dates quite far from a satellite’s epoch,
even if they are not likely to be meaningful.
But it cannot generate a position
beyond the point where the elements stop making physical sense.
At that point, the satellite will return a position and velocity
``(nan, nan, nan)`` where all of the quantities
are the special floating-point value ``nan`` which means *not-a-number*.

When a propagation error occurs and you get ``nan`` values,
you can examine the ``sgp4_error`` attribute of the returned position
to learn the error that the SGP4 propagator encountered.

We can take as an example the satellite elements above.
They are the last elements ever issued for GOCE,
about one day before the satellite re-entered the atmosphere
after an extended and successful mission.
Because of the steep decay of its orbit,
the elements are valid over an unusually short period —
from just before noon on Saturday to just past noon on Tuesday:

.. image:: _static/goce-decay.png

By asking for GOCE’s position just before or after this window,
we can learn about the propagation errors
that are limiting this TLE set’s predictions:

.. testcode::

    geocentric = sat.at(ts.utc(2013, 11, 9))
    print('Before:')
    print(geocentric.position.km)
    print(geocentric.message)

    geocentric = sat.at(ts.utc(2013, 11, 13))
    print('\nAfter:')
    print(geocentric.position.km)
    print(geocentric.message)

.. testoutput::

    Before:
    [nan nan nan]
    mean eccentricity -0.001416 not within range 0.0 <= e < 1.0

    After:
    [nan nan nan]
    mrt 0.997178 is less than 1.0 indicating the satellite has decayed

If you use a ``Time`` array to ask about an entire range of dates,
then ``sgp4_error`` will be a sequence filled in with ``None``
whenever the SGP4 propagator was successful
and otherwise recording the propagator error:

.. testcode::

    from pprint import pprint

    geocentric = sat.at(ts.utc(2013, 11, [9, 10, 11, 12, 13]))
    pprint(geocentric.message)

.. testoutput::

    ['mean eccentricity -0.001416 not within range 0.0 <= e < 1.0',
     None,
     None,
     None,
     'mrt 0.997178 is less than 1.0 indicating the satellite has decayed']
