skyfield/documentation/positions.rst, before:


===========================
 Positions and Coordinates
===========================

.. currentmodule:: skyfield.api

Skyfield is careful to distinguish the *position* of an object
from the several choices of *coordinate*
that you can use to designate that position with numbers.
There are only three basic kinds of position that Skyfield recognizes,
but several different ways in which each position
can be turned into coordinates.

Here is a quick reference to the three basic kinds of position,
together with all of the attributes and methods that they support:

.. parsed-literal::

    Three positions

    obj.at(time)        →  Barycentric position (BCRS)
     └─ observe(obj2)   →  Astrometric position (ΔBCRS)
         └─ apparent()  →  Apparent position (GCRS)

    ICRF, Barycentric, Astrometric, or Apparent position
     │
     ├── `position <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.position>`_.au         →   x, y, z
     ├── `position <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.position>`_.km         →   x, y, z
     ├── `position.to(unit) <api.html#Distance.to>`_   →   x, y, z
     │
     ├── `velocity <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.velocity>`_.au_per_d   →   xdot, ydot, zdot
     ├── `velocity <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.velocity>`_.km_per_s   →   xdot, ydot, zdot
     ├── `velocity.to(unit) <api.html#Distance.to>`_   →   xdot, ydot, zdot
     │
     ├── `radec(epoch=t) <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.radec>`_      →   ra, dec, distance
     ├── `radec() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.radec>`_             →   ra, dec, distance
     ├── `distance() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.distance>`_          →   distance
     │
     ├── `ecliptic_position() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.ecliptic_position>`_ →   x, y, z
     ├── `ecliptic_latlon() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.ecliptic_latlon>`_   →   lat, lon, distance
     ├── `galactic_position() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.galactic_position>`_ →   x, y, z
     └── `galactic_latlon() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.galactic_latlon>`_   →   lat, lon, distance

    Apparent position only
     │
     └── `altaz(…) <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.Apparent.altaz>`_            →   alt, az, distance

    Angle like ra, dec, alt, and az
     │
     ├── `radians <api.html#Angle.radians>`_             →   6.266029488577352
     │
     ├── `hours <api.html#Angle.hours>`_               →   23.934469599999996
     ├── `hstr() <api.html#Angle.hstr>`_              →   '23h 56m 04.09s'
     ├── `hstr(places=4) <api.html#Angle.hstr>`_      →   '23h 56m 04.0906s'
     ├── `hms() <api.html#Angle.hms>`_               →   (23.0, 56.0, 4.0)
     ├── `signed_hms() <api.html#Angle.hms>`_        →   (1.0, 23.0, 56.0, 4.0)
     │
     ├── `degrees <api.html#Angle.degrees>`_             →   359.017044
     ├── `dstr() <api.html#Angle.dstr>`_              →   '359deg 01\' 01.4"'
     ├── `dstr(places=3) <api.html#Angle.dstr>`_      →   '359deg 01\' 01.358"'
     └── `signed_dms() <api.html#Angle.dms>`_        →   (1.0, 359.0, 1.0, 1.0)

The rest of this page is designed to explain
all of the features outlined in the quick reference above.
All hyperlinked attributes and method names,
both in the text above and in the explanations below,
lead to the low-level :doc:`api`
which explains each option in even greater detail.

Quick reference to generating positions
=======================================

Skyfield already supports three kinds of object
that can compute their position.
Each object offers an ``at()`` method
whose argument can be a :doc:`Time <time>` object
that either holds a single time
or a whole array of different time values.
Objects respond by returning either a single scalar position
or else by generating a whole series of positions.

.. testsetup::

   __import__('skyfield.tests.fixes').tests.fixes.setup()

**Instantiating positions from numeric coordinates**
  If you already possess *x*, *y*, and *z* coordinates
  oriented along the ICRF axes,
  then you can directly instantiate any of the position classes
  by providing those coordinates as a vector of length 3.
  Here, for example, is how to instantiate the `ICRF` class:

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.positionlib import ICRF

    x = 3141.0
    y = 2718.0
    z = 5820.0
    vec = ICRF([x, y, z])

  This also works with more specific position classes
  like the `Barycentric` class.
  The resulting position object will support
  all of the main features described on this page.

**The planets**
  The eight planets and Pluto are all supported,
  thanks to the excellent work of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL)
  and Skyfield’s support for their major solar system ephemerides.
  :doc:`Read more <planets>`

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import Topos, load

    ts = load.timescale()
    t = ts.now()

    planets = load('de421.bsp')
    earth = planets['earth']
    mars = planets['mars']

    # From the center of the Solar System (Barycentric)

    barycentric = mars.at(t)

    # From the center of the Earth (Geocentric)

    astrometric = earth.at(t).observe(mars)
    apparent = earth.at(t).observe(mars).apparent()

    # From a place on Earth (Topocentric)

    boston = earth + Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    astrometric = boston.at(t).observe(mars)
    apparent = boston.at(t).observe(mars).apparent()

**The stars**
  Stars and other fixed objects with catalog coordinates
  are able to generate their current astrometric position
  when observed from a planet. :doc:`Read more <stars>`

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import Star, Topos, load

    ts = load.timescale()
    t = ts.now()

    boston = earth + Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    barnard = Star(ra_hours=(17, 57, 48.49803),
                   dec_degrees=(4, 41, 36.2072))

    # From the center of the Earth (Geocentric)

    astrometric = earth.at(t).observe(barnard)
    apparent = earth.at(t).observe(barnard).apparent()

    # From a place on Earth (Topocentric)

    astrometric = boston.at(t).observe(barnard)
    apparent = boston.at(t).observe(barnard).apparent()

**Earth satellites**
  Earth satellite positions can be generated
  from public TLE elements describing their current orbit,
  which you can download from Celestrak. :doc:`Read more <earth-satellites>`

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import EarthSatellite, Topos, load

    ts = load.timescale()
    t = ts.now()

    line1 = '1 25544U 98067A   14020.93268519  .00009878  00000-0  18200-3 0  5082'
    line2 = '2 25544  51.6498 109.4756 0003572  55.9686 274.8005 15.49815350868473'

    boston = Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    satellite = EarthSatellite(line1, line2, name='ISS (ZARYA)')

    # Geocentric

    geometry = satellite.at(t)

    # Topocentric

    difference = satellite - boston
    geometry = difference.at(t)

Read :doc:`time` for more information
about how to build dates and pass them to planets and satellites
when generating positions.

What can you do with a position once it has been generated?
The rest of this document is a complete tour of the possibilities.

Barycentric position
====================

When you ask Skyfield for the position of a planet or star,
it produces a three-dimensional position
that is measured from the Solar System *barycenter* —
the center of mass around which all of the planets revolve.
The position is stored as *x*, *y*, and *z* coordinates
in the International Celestial Reference System (ICRS),
a permanent frame of reference
that is a high-precision replacement
for the old J2000.0 system
that was popular at the end of the 20th century.

The ICRS is one of three related concepts
that you will often see mentioned together
in technical publications:

* | *Barycentric Celestial Reference System* (BCRS) —
    a coordinate origin whose relativistic frame of reference
    is the one that was carefully defined in IAU 2000 Resolution B1.3
    which puts the coordinate origin
    at the gravitational center of the Solar System.
    The direction in which the coordinate axes might point
    is left unspecified.

* *International Celestial Reference Frame* (ICRF) —
  a precision reference frame
  that radio astronomers have helped us define,
  that will become forever more exact
  as we measure better and better positions
  for a list of very distant radio sources.
  Wherever the origin of your coordinate system might lie,
  you can use the ICRF to define
  where your *x*-axis, *y*-axis, and *z*-axis should point.

* *International Celestial Reference System* (ICRS) —
  A coordinate system whose origin is defined by the BCRS
  and whose axis directions are defined by the ICRF.
  In essence, the ICRS = ICRF + BCRS.

Instead of using an acronym,
Skyfield uses the class name :class:`Barycentric`
for coordinates expressed in the ICRS.
You can view the raw *x*, *y*, and *z* coordinates
by asking Skyfield for their :attr:`~Barycentric.position` attribute:

.. testcode::

    # BCRS positions of Earth and Venus

    from skyfield.api import load

    planets = load('de421.bsp')
    earth = planets['earth']
    mars = planets['mars']

    t = ts.utc(1980, 1, 1)
    print(earth.at(t).position.au)
    print(mars.at(t).position.au)

.. testoutput::

    [-0.16287311  0.88787399  0.38473904]
    [-1.09202418  1.10723168  0.53739021]

The coordinates shown above are measured
using the Astronomical Unit (au),
which is the average distance from the Earth to the Sun.
You can, if you want, ask for these coordinates
in kilometers with the :attr:`~Position.km` attribute.
And if you have the third-party AstroPy package installed,
then you can convert these coordinates
into any length unit with the :meth:`~Position.to` method.

Astrometric position
====================

You might think that you could determine
the position of Mars in the night sky of Earth
by simply subtracting these two positions
to generate the vector difference between them.
But that would ignore the fact that light takes several minutes
to travel between Mars and the Earth.
The image of Mars in our sky
does not show us where it *is*, right now,
but where it *was* — several minutes ago —
when the light now reaching our eyes or instruments
actually left its surface.

Correcting for the light-travel time
does not simply fix a minor inconvenience,
but reflects a very deep physical reality.
Not only the light from Mars,
but *all* of its physical effects,
arrive no faster than the speed of light.
As Mars tugs at the Earth with its gravity,
we do not get pulled in the direction of the “real” Mars —
we get tugged in the direction of its time-delayed image
hanging in the sky above us!

So Skyfield offers a :meth:`~Position.observe()` method
that carefully backdates the position of another object
to determine where it was when it generated the image
that we see in our sky:

.. testcode::

    # Observing Mars from the Earth's position

    astrometric = earth.at(ts.utc(1980, 1, 1)).observe(mars)
    print(astrometric.position.au)

.. testoutput::

    [-0.92909581  0.21939949  0.15266885]

This light-delayed position is called the *astrometric* position,
and is traditionally mapped on a star chart
by the angles *right ascension* and *declination*
that you can compute using the :meth:`~Position.radec()` method
and display using their :meth:`~Angle.hstr()`
and :meth:`~Angle.dstr()` methods:

.. testcode::

    # Astrometric RA and declination

    ra, dec, distance = astrometric.radec()
    print(ra.hstr())
    print(dec.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    11h 06m 51.22s
    +09deg 05' 09.2"
    0.96678 au

As we will explore in the next section,
objects never appear at exactly the position in the sky
predicted by the simple and ideal astrometric position.
But it is useful for mapping the planet
against the background of stars in a
`printed star atlas <http://www.amazon.com/s/?_encoding=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&linkCode=ur2&pageMinusResults=1&suo=1389754954253&tag=letsdisthemat-20&url=search-alias%3Daps#/ref=nb_sb_noss_1?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=star%20atlas&sprefix=star+%2Caps&rh=i%3Aaps%2Ck%3Astar%20atlas&sepatfbtf=true&tc=1389754955568>`_,
because star atlases use astrometric positions.

If you have several bodies for which you want to generate positions,
note that it’s more efficient to generate the observer’s position only once
and then re-use that position for each object you want to observe.

.. testcode::

    # Observing Mars from the Earth's position

    mercury, venus = planets['mercury'], planets['venus']

    here = earth.at(ts.utc(2018, 5, 19))
    print(here.observe(mercury).position.au)
    print(here.observe(venus).position.au)

.. testoutput::

    [0.894231   0.67436002 0.24448674]
    [0.02134722 1.22511631 0.57114432]

.. _apparent:

Apparent position
=================

To determine the position of an object in the night sky
with even greater accuracy,
two further effects must be taken into account:

*Deflection*
  The object’s light is bent,
  and thus its image displaced,
  if the light passes close to another large mass
  on its way to the observer.
  This will happen if the object lies very near to the Sun in the sky,
  for example, or is nearly behind Jupiter.
  The effect is small,
  but must be taken into account for research-grade results.

*Aberration*
  The velocity of the Earth itself through space
  adds a very slight slant to light arriving at our planet,
  in the same way that rain or snow
  seen through the windshield while driving
  appears to be slanting towards you
  because of your own motion.
  The effect is small enough — at most about 20 arcseconds —
  that only in 1728 was it finally observed and explained,
  when James Bradley realized that it provided the long-awaited proof
  that the Earth is indeed in motion in an orbit around the Sun.

Skyfield lets you apply both of these effects
by invoking the :meth:`~Astrometric.apparent()` method
on an astrometric position.
Like an astrometric position, an apparent position
is typically expressed as the angles
*right ascension* and *declination*:

.. testcode::

    # Apparent GCRS ("J2000.0") coordinates

    apparent = astrometric.apparent()
    ra, dec, distance = apparent.radec()

    print(ra.hstr())
    print(dec.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    11h 06m 51.75s
    +09deg 05' 04.7"
    0.96678 au

But it is actually unusual to print apparent coordinates
in a permanent unchanging reference frame like the ICRF,
so you are unlikely to find the two values above
if you look up the position of Mars on 1980 January 1
in an almanac or by using other astronomy software.

Instead, apparent positions are usually expressed
relative to the Earth’s real equator and poles
as its rolls and tumbles through space —
which, after all,
is how right ascension and declination were defined
through most of human history,
before the invention of the ICRF axes.
The Earth’s equator and poles move at least slightly every day,
and move by larger amounts as years add up to centuries.

To ask for right ascension and declination
relative to the real equator and poles of Earth,
and not the ideal permanent axes of the ICRF,
simply add the keyword argument ``epoch='date'``
when you ask the apparent position for coordinates:

.. testcode::

    # Coordinates relative to true equator and equinox

    ra, dec, distance = apparent.radec(epoch='date')

    print(ra.hstr())
    print(dec.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    11h 05m 48.68s
    +09deg 11' 35.7"
    0.96678 au

These are the coordinates
that should match other astronomy software
and the data in the
`Astronomical Almanac <http://www.amazon.com/s/?_encoding=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&field-keywords=astronomical%20almanac&linkCode=ur2&tag=letsdisthemat-20&url=search-alias%3Daps>`_,
and are sometimes said to be expressed
in the “dynamical reference system” defined by the Earth itself.

Azimuth and altitude
====================

The final result that many users seek
is the altitude and azimuth of an object
above their own local horizon.

* *Altitude* measures the angle above or below the horizon,
  with a positive number of degrees meaning “above”
  and a negative number indicating that the object
  is below the horizon (and impossible to view).

* *Azimuth* measures the angle around the sky from the north pole,
  so 0° means that the object is straight north,
  90° indicates that the object lies to the east,
  180° means south, and 270° means that the object is straight west.

Altitude and azimuth are computed
by calling the :meth:`~Apparent.altaz()` method on an apparent position.
But because the method needs to know whose local horizon to use,
it does not work
on the plain geocentric (“Earth centered”) positions
that we have been generating so far:

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = apparent.altaz()

.. testoutput::

    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    ValueError: to compute an apparent position, you must observe from a specific Earth location that you specify using a Topos instance

Instead, you have to give Skyfield your geographic location.
Astronomers use the term *topocentric*
for a position measured relative to a specific location on Earth,
so Skyfield represents Earth locations using :class:`Topos` objects
that you can add to an Earth object
to generate a position relative to the center of the Solar System:

.. testcode::

    # Altitude and azimuth in the sky of a
    # specific geographic location

    boston = earth + Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    astro = boston.at(ts.utc(1980, 3, 1)).observe(mars)
    app = astro.apparent()

    alt, az, distance = app.altaz()
    print(alt.dstr())
    print(az.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    24deg 30' 27.2"
    93deg 04' 29.5"
    0.678874 au

So Mars was more than 24° above the horizon for Bostonians
on 1980 March 1 at midnight UTC.

The altitude returned from a plain :meth:`~Apparent.altaz()` call
is the ideal position
that you would observe if the Earth had no atmosphere.
You can also ask Skyfield to estimate
where an object might actually appear in the sky
after the Earth’s atmosphere has *refracted* its image higher.
If you know the weather conditions, you can specify them.

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = app.altaz(temperature_C=15.0,
                                  pressure_mbar=1005.0)
    print(alt.dstr())

.. testoutput::

    24deg 32' 34.1"

Or you can ask Skyfield to use a standard temperature and pressure
when generating its rough simulation of the effects of refraction.

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = app.altaz('standard')
    print(alt.dstr())

.. testoutput::

    24deg 32' 37.0"

Keep in mind
that the computed effect of refraction is simply an estimate.
The effects of your local atmosphere,
with its many layers of heat and cold and wind and weather,
cannot be predicted to high precision.
And note that refraction is only applied to objects above the horizon.
Objects below −1.0° altitude are not adjusted for refraction.

.. testcleanup::

   __import__('skyfield.tests.fixes').tests.fixes.teardown()

Commit message:

Add heliocentric coordinates example code
Partially addresses #178.

skyfield/documentation/positions.rst, after:


===========================
 Positions and Coordinates
===========================

.. currentmodule:: skyfield.api

Skyfield is careful to distinguish the *position* of an object
from the several choices of *coordinate*
that you can use to designate that position with numbers.
There are only three basic kinds of position that Skyfield recognizes,
but several different ways in which each position
can be turned into coordinates.

Here is a quick reference to the three basic kinds of position,
together with all of the attributes and methods that they support:

.. parsed-literal::

    Three positions

    obj.at(time)        →  Barycentric position (BCRS)
     └─ observe(obj2)   →  Astrometric position (ΔBCRS)
         └─ apparent()  →  Apparent position (GCRS)

    ICRF, Barycentric, Astrometric, or Apparent position
     │
     ├── `position <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.position>`_.au         →   x, y, z
     ├── `position <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.position>`_.km         →   x, y, z
     ├── `position.to(unit) <api.html#Distance.to>`_   →   x, y, z
     │
     ├── `velocity <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.velocity>`_.au_per_d   →   xdot, ydot, zdot
     ├── `velocity <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.velocity>`_.km_per_s   →   xdot, ydot, zdot
     ├── `velocity.to(unit) <api.html#Distance.to>`_   →   xdot, ydot, zdot
     │
     ├── `radec(epoch=t) <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.radec>`_      →   ra, dec, distance
     ├── `radec() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.radec>`_             →   ra, dec, distance
     ├── `distance() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.distance>`_          →   distance
     │
     ├── `ecliptic_position() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.ecliptic_position>`_ →   x, y, z
     ├── `ecliptic_latlon() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.ecliptic_latlon>`_   →   lat, lon, distance
     ├── `galactic_position() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.galactic_position>`_ →   x, y, z
     └── `galactic_latlon() <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.ICRF.galactic_latlon>`_   →   lat, lon, distance

    Apparent position only
     │
     └── `altaz(…) <api.html#skyfield.positionlib.Apparent.altaz>`_            →   alt, az, distance

    Angle like ra, dec, alt, and az
     │
     ├── `radians <api.html#Angle.radians>`_             →   6.266029488577352
     │
     ├── `hours <api.html#Angle.hours>`_               →   23.934469599999996
     ├── `hstr() <api.html#Angle.hstr>`_              →   '23h 56m 04.09s'
     ├── `hstr(places=4) <api.html#Angle.hstr>`_      →   '23h 56m 04.0906s'
     ├── `hms() <api.html#Angle.hms>`_               →   (23.0, 56.0, 4.0)
     ├── `signed_hms() <api.html#Angle.hms>`_        →   (1.0, 23.0, 56.0, 4.0)
     │
     ├── `degrees <api.html#Angle.degrees>`_             →   359.017044
     ├── `dstr() <api.html#Angle.dstr>`_              →   '359deg 01\' 01.4"'
     ├── `dstr(places=3) <api.html#Angle.dstr>`_      →   '359deg 01\' 01.358"'
     └── `signed_dms() <api.html#Angle.dms>`_        →   (1.0, 359.0, 1.0, 1.0)

The rest of this page is designed to explain
all of the features outlined in the quick reference above.
All hyperlinked attributes and method names,
both in the text above and in the explanations below,
lead to the low-level :doc:`api`
which explains each option in even greater detail.

Quick reference to generating positions
=======================================

Skyfield already supports three kinds of object
that can compute their position.
Each object offers an ``at()`` method
whose argument can be a :doc:`Time <time>` object
that either holds a single time
or a whole array of different time values.
Objects respond by returning either a single scalar position
or else by generating a whole series of positions.

.. testsetup::

   __import__('skyfield.tests.fixes').tests.fixes.setup()

**Instantiating positions from numeric coordinates**
  If you already possess *x*, *y*, and *z* coordinates
  oriented along the ICRF axes,
  then you can directly instantiate any of the position classes
  by providing those coordinates as a vector of length 3.
  Here, for example, is how to instantiate the `ICRF` class:

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.positionlib import ICRF

    x = 3141.0
    y = 2718.0
    z = 5820.0
    vec = ICRF([x, y, z])

  This also works with more specific position classes
  like the `Barycentric` class.
  The resulting position object will support
  all of the main features described on this page.

**The planets**
  The eight planets and Pluto are all supported,
  thanks to the excellent work of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL)
  and Skyfield’s support for their major solar system ephemerides.
  :doc:`Read more <planets>`

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import Topos, load

    ts = load.timescale()
    t = ts.now()

    planets = load('de421.bsp')
    mars = planets['mars']

    # From the center of the Solar System (Barycentric)

    barycentric = mars.at(t)

    # From the center of the Sun (Heliocentric)

    sun = planets['sun']
    heliocentric = sun.at(t).observe(mars)

    # From the center of the Earth (Geocentric)

    earth = planets['earth']
    astrometric = earth.at(t).observe(mars)
    apparent = earth.at(t).observe(mars).apparent()

    # From a place on Earth (Topocentric)

    boston = earth + Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    astrometric = boston.at(t).observe(mars)
    apparent = boston.at(t).observe(mars).apparent()

**The stars**
  Stars and other fixed objects with catalog coordinates
  are able to generate their current astrometric position
  when observed from a planet. :doc:`Read more <stars>`

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import Star, Topos, load

    ts = load.timescale()
    t = ts.now()

    boston = earth + Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    barnard = Star(ra_hours=(17, 57, 48.49803),
                   dec_degrees=(4, 41, 36.2072))

    # From the center of the Earth (Geocentric)

    astrometric = earth.at(t).observe(barnard)
    apparent = earth.at(t).observe(barnard).apparent()

    # From a place on Earth (Topocentric)

    astrometric = boston.at(t).observe(barnard)
    apparent = boston.at(t).observe(barnard).apparent()

**Earth satellites**
  Earth satellite positions can be generated
  from public TLE elements describing their current orbit,
  which you can download from Celestrak. :doc:`Read more <earth-satellites>`

  .. testcode::

    from skyfield.api import EarthSatellite, Topos, load

    ts = load.timescale()
    t = ts.now()

    line1 = '1 25544U 98067A   14020.93268519  .00009878  00000-0  18200-3 0  5082'
    line2 = '2 25544  51.6498 109.4756 0003572  55.9686 274.8005 15.49815350868473'

    boston = Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    satellite = EarthSatellite(line1, line2, name='ISS (ZARYA)')

    # Geocentric

    geometry = satellite.at(t)

    # Topocentric

    difference = satellite - boston
    geometry = difference.at(t)

Read :doc:`time` for more information
about how to build dates and pass them to planets and satellites
when generating positions.

What can you do with a position once it has been generated?
The rest of this document is a complete tour of the possibilities.

Barycentric position
====================

When you ask Skyfield for the position of a planet or star,
it produces a three-dimensional position
that is measured from the Solar System *barycenter* —
the center of mass around which all of the planets revolve.
The position is stored as *x*, *y*, and *z* coordinates
in the International Celestial Reference System (ICRS),
a permanent frame of reference
that is a high-precision replacement
for the old J2000.0 system
that was popular at the end of the 20th century.

The ICRS is one of three related concepts
that you will often see mentioned together
in technical publications:

* | *Barycentric Celestial Reference System* (BCRS) —
    a coordinate origin whose relativistic frame of reference
    is the one that was carefully defined in IAU 2000 Resolution B1.3
    which puts the coordinate origin
    at the gravitational center of the Solar System.
    The direction in which the coordinate axes might point
    is left unspecified.

* *International Celestial Reference Frame* (ICRF) —
  a precision reference frame
  that radio astronomers have helped us define,
  that will become forever more exact
  as we measure better and better positions
  for a list of very distant radio sources.
  Wherever the origin of your coordinate system might lie,
  you can use the ICRF to define
  where your *x*-axis, *y*-axis, and *z*-axis should point.

* *International Celestial Reference System* (ICRS) —
  A coordinate system whose origin is defined by the BCRS
  and whose axis directions are defined by the ICRF.
  In essence, the ICRS = ICRF + BCRS.

Instead of using an acronym,
Skyfield uses the class name :class:`Barycentric`
for coordinates expressed in the ICRS.
You can view the raw *x*, *y*, and *z* coordinates
by asking Skyfield for their :attr:`~Barycentric.position` attribute:

.. testcode::

    # BCRS positions of Earth and Venus

    from skyfield.api import load

    planets = load('de421.bsp')
    earth = planets['earth']
    mars = planets['mars']

    t = ts.utc(1980, 1, 1)
    print(earth.at(t).position.au)
    print(mars.at(t).position.au)

.. testoutput::

    [-0.16287311  0.88787399  0.38473904]
    [-1.09202418  1.10723168  0.53739021]

The coordinates shown above are measured
using the Astronomical Unit (au),
which is the average distance from the Earth to the Sun.
You can, if you want, ask for these coordinates
in kilometers with the :attr:`~Position.km` attribute.
And if you have the third-party AstroPy package installed,
then you can convert these coordinates
into any length unit with the :meth:`~Position.to` method.

Astrometric position
====================

You might think that you could determine
the position of Mars in the night sky of Earth
by simply subtracting these two positions
to generate the vector difference between them.
But that would ignore the fact that light takes several minutes
to travel between Mars and the Earth.
The image of Mars in our sky
does not show us where it *is*, right now,
but where it *was* — several minutes ago —
when the light now reaching our eyes or instruments
actually left its surface.

Correcting for the light-travel time
does not simply fix a minor inconvenience,
but reflects a very deep physical reality.
Not only the light from Mars,
but *all* of its physical effects,
arrive no faster than the speed of light.
As Mars tugs at the Earth with its gravity,
we do not get pulled in the direction of the “real” Mars —
we get tugged in the direction of its time-delayed image
hanging in the sky above us!

So Skyfield offers a :meth:`~Position.observe()` method
that carefully backdates the position of another object
to determine where it was when it generated the image
that we see in our sky:

.. testcode::

    # Observing Mars from the Earth's position

    astrometric = earth.at(ts.utc(1980, 1, 1)).observe(mars)
    print(astrometric.position.au)

.. testoutput::

    [-0.92909581  0.21939949  0.15266885]

This light-delayed position is called the *astrometric* position,
and is traditionally mapped on a star chart
by the angles *right ascension* and *declination*
that you can compute using the :meth:`~Position.radec()` method
and display using their :meth:`~Angle.hstr()`
and :meth:`~Angle.dstr()` methods:

.. testcode::

    # Astrometric RA and declination

    ra, dec, distance = astrometric.radec()
    print(ra.hstr())
    print(dec.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    11h 06m 51.22s
    +09deg 05' 09.2"
    0.96678 au

As we will explore in the next section,
objects never appear at exactly the position in the sky
predicted by the simple and ideal astrometric position.
But it is useful for mapping the planet
against the background of stars in a
`printed star atlas <http://www.amazon.com/s/?_encoding=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&linkCode=ur2&pageMinusResults=1&suo=1389754954253&tag=letsdisthemat-20&url=search-alias%3Daps#/ref=nb_sb_noss_1?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=star%20atlas&sprefix=star+%2Caps&rh=i%3Aaps%2Ck%3Astar%20atlas&sepatfbtf=true&tc=1389754955568>`_,
because star atlases use astrometric positions.

If you have several bodies for which you want to generate positions,
note that it’s more efficient to generate the observer’s position only once
and then re-use that position for each object you want to observe.

.. testcode::

    # Observing Mars from the Earth's position

    mercury, venus = planets['mercury'], planets['venus']

    here = earth.at(ts.utc(2018, 5, 19))
    print(here.observe(mercury).position.au)
    print(here.observe(venus).position.au)

.. testoutput::

    [0.894231   0.67436002 0.24448674]
    [0.02134722 1.22511631 0.57114432]

.. _apparent:

Apparent position
=================

To determine the position of an object in the night sky
with even greater accuracy,
two further effects must be taken into account:

*Deflection*
  The object’s light is bent,
  and thus its image displaced,
  if the light passes close to another large mass
  on its way to the observer.
  This will happen if the object lies very near to the Sun in the sky,
  for example, or is nearly behind Jupiter.
  The effect is small,
  but must be taken into account for research-grade results.

*Aberration*
  The velocity of the Earth itself through space
  adds a very slight slant to light arriving at our planet,
  in the same way that rain or snow
  seen through the windshield while driving
  appears to be slanting towards you
  because of your own motion.
  The effect is small enough — at most about 20 arcseconds —
  that only in 1728 was it finally observed and explained,
  when James Bradley realized that it provided the long-awaited proof
  that the Earth is indeed in motion in an orbit around the Sun.

Skyfield lets you apply both of these effects
by invoking the :meth:`~Astrometric.apparent()` method
on an astrometric position.
Like an astrometric position, an apparent position
is typically expressed as the angles
*right ascension* and *declination*:

.. testcode::

    # Apparent GCRS ("J2000.0") coordinates

    apparent = astrometric.apparent()
    ra, dec, distance = apparent.radec()

    print(ra.hstr())
    print(dec.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    11h 06m 51.75s
    +09deg 05' 04.7"
    0.96678 au

But it is actually unusual to print apparent coordinates
in a permanent unchanging reference frame like the ICRF,
so you are unlikely to find the two values above
if you look up the position of Mars on 1980 January 1
in an almanac or by using other astronomy software.

Instead, apparent positions are usually expressed
relative to the Earth’s real equator and poles
as its rolls and tumbles through space —
which, after all,
is how right ascension and declination were defined
through most of human history,
before the invention of the ICRF axes.
The Earth’s equator and poles move at least slightly every day,
and move by larger amounts as years add up to centuries.

To ask for right ascension and declination
relative to the real equator and poles of Earth,
and not the ideal permanent axes of the ICRF,
simply add the keyword argument ``epoch='date'``
when you ask the apparent position for coordinates:

.. testcode::

    # Coordinates relative to true equator and equinox

    ra, dec, distance = apparent.radec(epoch='date')

    print(ra.hstr())
    print(dec.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    11h 05m 48.68s
    +09deg 11' 35.7"
    0.96678 au

These are the coordinates
that should match other astronomy software
and the data in the
`Astronomical Almanac <http://www.amazon.com/s/?_encoding=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&field-keywords=astronomical%20almanac&linkCode=ur2&tag=letsdisthemat-20&url=search-alias%3Daps>`_,
and are sometimes said to be expressed
in the “dynamical reference system” defined by the Earth itself.

Azimuth and altitude
====================

The final result that many users seek
is the altitude and azimuth of an object
above their own local horizon.

* *Altitude* measures the angle above or below the horizon,
  with a positive number of degrees meaning “above”
  and a negative number indicating that the object
  is below the horizon (and impossible to view).

* *Azimuth* measures the angle around the sky from the north pole,
  so 0° means that the object is straight north,
  90° indicates that the object lies to the east,
  180° means south, and 270° means that the object is straight west.

Altitude and azimuth are computed
by calling the :meth:`~Apparent.altaz()` method on an apparent position.
But because the method needs to know whose local horizon to use,
it does not work
on the plain geocentric (“Earth centered”) positions
that we have been generating so far:

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = apparent.altaz()

.. testoutput::

    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    ValueError: to compute an apparent position, you must observe from a specific Earth location that you specify using a Topos instance

Instead, you have to give Skyfield your geographic location.
Astronomers use the term *topocentric*
for a position measured relative to a specific location on Earth,
so Skyfield represents Earth locations using :class:`Topos` objects
that you can add to an Earth object
to generate a position relative to the center of the Solar System:

.. testcode::

    # Altitude and azimuth in the sky of a
    # specific geographic location

    boston = earth + Topos('42.3583 N', '71.0603 W')
    astro = boston.at(ts.utc(1980, 3, 1)).observe(mars)
    app = astro.apparent()

    alt, az, distance = app.altaz()
    print(alt.dstr())
    print(az.dstr())
    print(distance)

.. testoutput::

    24deg 30' 27.2"
    93deg 04' 29.5"
    0.678874 au

So Mars was more than 24° above the horizon for Bostonians
on 1980 March 1 at midnight UTC.

The altitude returned from a plain :meth:`~Apparent.altaz()` call
is the ideal position
that you would observe if the Earth had no atmosphere.
You can also ask Skyfield to estimate
where an object might actually appear in the sky
after the Earth’s atmosphere has *refracted* its image higher.
If you know the weather conditions, you can specify them.

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = app.altaz(temperature_C=15.0,
                                  pressure_mbar=1005.0)
    print(alt.dstr())

.. testoutput::

    24deg 32' 34.1"

Or you can ask Skyfield to use a standard temperature and pressure
when generating its rough simulation of the effects of refraction.

.. testcode::

    alt, az, distance = app.altaz('standard')
    print(alt.dstr())

.. testoutput::

    24deg 32' 37.0"

Keep in mind
that the computed effect of refraction is simply an estimate.
The effects of your local atmosphere,
with its many layers of heat and cold and wind and weather,
cannot be predicted to high precision.
And note that refraction is only applied to objects above the horizon.
Objects below −1.0° altitude are not adjusted for refraction.

.. testcleanup::

   __import__('skyfield.tests.fixes').tests.fixes.teardown()
